Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. Greetings to
all fellow practitioners and viewers of
today's program. I received a question
that I think many of
our Buddhists struggle with: the
overwhelming influence of unwholesome thoughts, which
causes
mental distress. I will read the
question: "Hello, teacher. I have a problem that I hope
you can answer.
In a day, I have many
thoughts, both good and bad, and
sometimes I can't control
them. So I hope you can show me how
to eliminate these unwholesome thoughts whenever
they arise. Thank you, teacher." I will
guide you through two
methods. The first is, whenever
an unwholesome thought arises,
you should acknowledge that it is a delusion,
not your present moment. This is an
unwholesome thought. Let go of it. This is a
way to get rid of
unwholesome thoughts,
but this method takes a
long time and is
difficult to practice because it is an
unwholesome thought.  This will come
continuously, and sometimes it makes us very
uncomfortable and
troubled. This method is only easier for
those who have practiced for a long time. For
beginners, we
must learn how to
do it, which is to contemplate the Four Noble Truths
on each unwholesome thought, or
to transform
unwholesome thoughts, or to eliminate unwholesome delusions. There
are ways of thinking that help
us develop our insightful wisdom.
Our thinking is
very good. When an unwholesome thought
arises in our
mind, I'll just give an example. For instance, when
we see someone,
many people have told me about
this problem. For example, when they see someone,
a thought
suddenly arises: "Ah,
that's a demon!" Then another thought suddenly
arises, and if we keep letting
it go continuously...  We don't have
time to let go of it, and saying we don't think about it
is impossible because it happens right in
our minds. If you don't
let go of it, you'll be very troubled
because it occupies all
your thoughts, making it difficult to think about anything
else. So here, I will
guide you to contemplate the Four Noble Truths, but
in two different situations.
For example, if you are engrossed in a task and
those unwholesome thoughts or
delusions flash by,
you can use the first method:
let go of them to focus on
your task. This will prevent you from
following
those delusions or thoughts, and allow you to live in the
present moment. As for what you need to cultivate
to resolve the root cause,
you must dedicate a certain
amount of time each day, for example,
30 minutes or an hour,
to contemplation—that is, we call it practicing
meditation.  This is Vipassana meditation. When you
sit in meditation, if an
unwholesome thought or delusion arises in you,
don't ignore it. Grasp that
unwholesome thought. For example, if
you
see someone in front of you or
around you, or you think of someone, and that
delusion
arises—a
demon or some other creature—
you immediately grasp that
thought, that delusion, that demon, and focus your thoughts
on it. Then you
think like this: "This is
Ms. Nguyen Thi
A, her face is like this, her gait is like this, she is
not a demon." That means
we are making the situation clear: this is
not a demon. That's the
first step; you have purified that
delusion. The second step is to
transform it to
a higher level, which is to
contemplate the Noble Truth of Suffering. This unwholesome delusion is
tormenting
you, and you are suffering.  This karma is
why I suffer so much. I
clearly recognize the suffering and return to the truth: this
is who I am, this face,
this body—this is due to my unwholesome thoughts. The
cause of
these unwholesome thoughts is my tendency to
criticize others. I
criticize people because I am
envious of them, so I have
spoken ill of them, I have
criticized them. That is the reason why,
until now, I am
controlled by this unwholesome mind, causing
me suffering.
Next, regarding the path of righteousness
in the Four Noble Truths, from now on
I will no longer criticize. I will
only speak the truth. I will not criticize and
I will limit and control my envious mind.
When you have reached that point in your thinking,
and you have completed this stage of reflection,
you will have escaped that
demonic mind—you have
purified it. After
that, you return to
your meditative state, and when
another distracting thought arises...  So you just
keep thinking in the Four Noble Truths, until you
reach the final point where it becomes
pure. We call this thought "
transformed" from the thought of calling
people "demons" to the reality that it's
not a demon, and the cause of
suffering is recognized. We realize the cause of suffering and find a way to
resolve it. That is, we let this thought attain
Nirvana, it becomes pure, and so on. And so on,
until at some point
we will transform this karma. That
's the benefit of meditation. It's very
good, that's what we call wisdom meditation.
That means we use wisdom
to liberate ourselves, which is very good.
Therefore, the Four Noble Truths are wonderful for
those who practice meditation.
We can apply the Four Noble Truths
anytime, anywhere, in any circumstance to
transform our old karmic forces
and
generate good deeds and wisdom. That's
very good. The Four Noble Truths are
wonderful if anyone knows how to apply them to their practice.
The way you have many
unwholesome thoughts, we should
apply the Four Noble Truths, which means
recognizing the truth of the matter. After recognizing the truth,
we then look at the cause of why we are
altering this truth—what
karma is it? We identify
that karma and focus on
transforming it. This is
called Right Intention, using the Four Noble
Truths to create intention. Once
we have this intention, we can let go of
it, and naturally, we will
experience joy. If we continue
like this, later on, wholesome thoughts
will spontaneously arise, especially
truthful thoughts, and we
will reach our ultimate goal.
However,
this is just theory. Practice
requires a very long time. Because in
a
meditation session, we are thinking, for example, about how
people are controlled by evil karma—because of envy,
jealousy, and criticism.  Jealousy,
envy, and criticism are all accompanied by
evil, and therefore have karmic consequences. Sometimes, just as
we've reached the point of
realizing that something is
n't a demon, an unwholesome thought
arises, saying, "That's exactly what a demon is."
For example, there are many such thoughts,
overlapping and intertwining.
We're thinking about one thing, trying to
purify it, but another
unwholesome thought arises.
You must let go of the newly
arising unwholesome thought and hold onto the old one until
you've purified it.
Otherwise, you won't know
how to think properly. Let me reiterate
this case: when we
're thinking and another unwholesome thought arises,
we let go of the
newly arising unwholesome thought. We
let go, but we still hold onto
the unwholesome thought we're currently thinking about, and
continue thinking
until it's purified.
Only then can we stop.
We return to the state of
meditation. When you meditate,
you should choose a
subject for your contemplation or
thinking. Once you have chosen that subject, because of your
karma, you only use it as a crutch; you
don't cultivate that subject.
Remember, our purpose is to eliminate
unwholesome thoughts that arise, and
we contemplate the Four Noble Truths. We
contemplate to eliminate those unwholesome thoughts. That is, our karma
needs to be transformed.
Otherwise, if we don't
grasp this thought to contemplate,
we will never be able to focus
on the initial subject we set.
So, after we have
eliminated one thought,
we return to
our subject. When we contemplate
our subject, if an unwholesome thought arises again,
we grasp
this unwholesome thought and
purify it again. That's the method.  Sitting
meditation allows us to
[music]
eliminate this karma. We
can sit meditation or we can practice walking
meditation, depending on each person's health. As long
as we can practice meditation,
this is very beneficial
for us. Or if we don't
practice walking meditation, we can
focus our minds on bowing to the Buddha or
focusing our minds on chanting scriptures. For example, if we
chant many scriptures, we let our
thoughts follow the scripture. Every
time an unwholesome thought arises,
we let go of the unwholesome thought and
recite the scripture. That
's also a way. The second way is bowing to the
Buddha. When we bow to the Buddha, we remember to
bow with mindfulness, called
mindful bowing. When we bow to the
Buddha, we will observe our thoughts
about our body
rising and falling, and we will
monitor our mind. If
any unwholesome thought arises
while we are bowing to the Buddha,
we will let go of it and return
to the object of our bowing to the Buddha.
We worship Buddha in this way,
this is called the mindful way of worshiping Buddha, dear fellow
practitioners. So
we can adapt it
according to our health and circumstances. For example, if
we meditate for too long and feel
tired, we can choose to
worship Buddha instead. If we worship Buddha for a while and then
feel tired again, we can
switch to chanting scriptures. That is, we
apply all the methods
we can that suit
our health to
eliminate our karma.
Sometimes we meditate,
sometimes we worship Buddha, sometimes we chant scriptures. All of
these generate merit and are
also causes for us to
transform our karma. When we know how to
combine them and understand the cause of
our karma, we will
practice to transform
this karma. As for the spiritual aspect, I
still advise you to add the spiritual aspect:
all
our unwholesome actions have an object
that we have caused harm
to.  If they are in
this realm of reincarnation and haven't yet cultivated to
attain sainthood, then according to the
karmic stream and the power of
mental interaction when we interact with them, if they harbor
hatred towards us, they will suffer because of us. If they hate us, the
law of cause and effect will affect them. If they are
in the realm of demons, they will approach
us, interacting and causing
us mental and emotional turmoil. Therefore, in the
scriptures, the Buddha also taught that some
people are harmed by non-human beings, causing
mental and emotional turmoil. Since we are also
in a state of mental and emotional turmoil,
we should practice the Buddha's teachings:
repentance, worshiping the Buddha, chanting scriptures, and meditating. In addition, we should make offerings to the
Three Jewels, creating
merit to dedicate to those
beings we have harmed.
They may now be interacting in this spiritual realm,
causing our minds to become confused. So, let's
combine
all these
methods to
transform this karma
more quickly. I wish you all diligence and
hope that...
We will have
more opportunities to exchange ideas. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni
[music]
K